[WIP] Pipelines as Code documentation for Pipelines 1.9 (#53813)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/op-using-pipelines-as-code-with-bitbucket-server.adoc

> // This module is included in the following assembly:

Author: Rendering errors will be resolved now.

//
// *cicd/pipelines/using-pipelines-as-code.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="using-pipelines-as-code-with-bitbucket-server_{context}"]
= Using {pac} with Bitbucket Server 

[role="_abstract"]
If your organization or project uses Bitbucket Server as the preferred platform, you can use {pac} for your repository with a webhook on Bitbucket Server. 

[discrete]
.Prerequisites

* Ensure that {pac} is installed on the cluster.

* Generate a personal access token as the manager of the project on Bitbucket Server, and save a copy of it in an alternate location. 
+
[NOTE]
====
* The token must have the `PROJECT_ADMIN` and `REPOSITORY_ADMIN` permissions.
* The token must have access to forked repositories in pull requests.
====

[discrete]
.Procedure

. On your OpenShift cluster, extract the public URL of the {pac} controller.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ echo https://$(oc get route -n pipelines-as-code pipelines-as-code-controller -o jsonpath='{.spec.host}')
----

. On Bitbucket Server, perform the following steps:

> .. Use the left navigation pane of your Bitbicket Data Center repository to go to *Repository settings* –> *Webhooks* and click *Add webhook*.

Reviewer: Comment resolved!

> .. Set a *Title*. For example, "Pipelines as Code"

Reviewer: Comment addressed!

.. Set the *URL* to the {pac} controller public URL.

> .. Add a webhook secret and save a copy of it in an alternate location. If you have `openssl` installed on your local machine, you can generate a random secret.

Reviewer: Comment addressed!

*** *Repository: Push*
*** *Repository: Modified*
*** *Pull Request: Opened*
*** *Pull Request: Source branch updated*
*** *Pull Request: Comment added* 

.. Click *Save*.

. On your OpenShift cluster, create a `Secret` object with the app password in the target namespace.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n target-namespace create secret generic bitbucket-server-webhook-config \
  --from-literal provider.token="<PERSONAL_TOKEN>" \
  --from-literal webhook.secret="<WEBHOOK_SECRET>"
----

. Create a `Repository` CR.
+
.Example: `Repository` CRD
[source,yaml]
----
---
  apiVersion: "pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/v1alpha1"
  kind: Repository
  metadata:
    name: my-repo
    namespace: target-namespace
  spec:
    url: "https://bitbucket.com/workspace/repo"
    git_provider:
      url: "https://bitbucket.server.api.url/rest" <1>
      user: "<BITBUCKET_USERNAME>" <2>
      secret: <3>
        name: "bitbucket-server-webhook-config"
        key: "provider.token" # Set this if you have a different key in your secret
      webhook_secret:
        name: "bitbucket-server-webhook-config"
        key: "webhook.secret" # Set this if you have a different key for your secret
----

> <1> Ensure that you have the right Bitbucket Server api url without the `/api/v1.0`. Usually the default install will have a `/rest` suffix.
> <2> You can only reference a user by the `ACCOUNT_ID` in a owner file.
> <3> {pac} assumes that the secret referred in the `git_provider.secret` spec and the `Repository` CR are in the same namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<1> Ensure that you have the right Bitbucket Server API URL without the `/api/v1.0` suffix. Usually, the default install will have a `/rest` suffix.
<2> You can only reference a user by the `ACCOUNT_ID` in an owner file.
<3> {pac} assumes that the secret referred in the `git_provider.secret` spec and the `Repository` CR is in the same namespace.
```

Reviewer: Comment addressed!
